International Edition
By Lisa Respers France, CNN

Updated 1355 GMT (2055 HKT) March 31, 2015
 (CNN)Things just got messy with that One Direction breakup.
Just when folks were starting to heal from the shock of Zayn Malik's decision to quit the super-successful boy group on Wednesday, a social media dustup has fans all a-Twitter.
Zayn Malik leaving One Direction
Music producer Naughty Boy got into a war of words with One Direction's Louis Tomlinson after the producer retweeted a user going by Naughty Boy/Zayn (@naughtyboymus).
The tweet was captioned "The truth" and contained a video of a little ditty in which an electronic voice croons "Naughty Boy saved my life" and mentions "Zaughty." 
The truth pic.twitter.com/AzxTwyZqBZ
Malik is reportedly working with Naughty Boy, and "Zaughty" is a combination of their names.
Tomlinson -- who is BFFs with Malik -- responded with "Wow @NaughtyBoyMusic you're so inconsiderate pal, seriously how f***ing old are you? Grow up! #masterofallwisdom." 
The producer replied by calling the singer a not-nice word, appearing to have misunderstood the reason behind Tomlinson's ire. The singer corrected him and accused Naughty Boy of trying to get fans worked up.
@NaughtyBoyMusic I was talking about the video you tweeted . Clearly trying to wind the fans up ! Well you succeeded anyway . Fair play
Directioners (as the fans are called) got into it, and the hashtags "Zaughty" and "masterofallwisdom" started trending.
Hours later, Naughty Boy decided to "let the music do the talking" and tweeted a link to a song titled "I Wont Mind," which is labeled as a demo from him and Malik. 
let the music do the talking guys. thank us later. :) x https://t.co/j7V2c7v1Yl
Several fans were not at all happy.
I WILL ALWAYS SUPPORT ZAYN BUT NOT ZAUGHTY.
too soon man. #zaughty #masterofallwisdom
SHOT ME OUTTA THE SKY
ZAUGHTY BOY RUINED MY NIGHT
After leaving the group, Malik expressed sadness at disappointing fans. 
"I feel like I've let the fans down, but I can't do this anymore," he told the UK's The Sun. "It's not that I've turned my back on them or anything, it's just that I just can't do that anymore, because it's not the real me."
Zayn Malik: 'I've let the fans down'

International Edition
