International Edition
By Lisa Respers France, CNN

Updated 1823 GMT (0223 HKT) March 19, 2015
 (CNN)Sam Smith does not want his weight to "Stay With Me."
The Grammy-winning singer has shed 14 pounds and is crediting author Amelia Freer with his new slimmer look. Freer is a nutritional expert and writer of the book "Eat. Nourish. Glow." 
Smith gave her a shoutout on an Instagram photo that shows his weight loss.
"Three weeks ago I met a woman who has completely changed my life," he wrote. "Amelia Freer has helped me lose over a stone in 2 weeks and has completely transformed my relationship with food."
 Three weeks ago I met a woman who has completely changed my life. Amelia Freer has helped me lose over a stone in 2 weeks and has completely transformed my relationship with food. Everyone go check out her incredible book, and start to live healthy. It's not even  about weight loss it's about feeling happy in yourself. Love you Amelia & thank you for making me feel so happy inside and out @ameliafreer #eatnourishglow
A photo posted by Sam Smith (@samsmithworld) on Mar 17, 2015 at 1:36pm PDT
 Gym is kicking my ass today
A photo posted by Sam Smith (@samsmithworld) on Mar 18, 2015 at 7:26am PDT
Freer said she decided to dedicate herself to helping people change their lives via healthier eating years ago, when she was working as an assistant to Prince Charles, according to the Daily Mail. 
"I used to arrive home exhausted (not because of the job, it turns out, but because of my terrible diet), with no energy to cook, so I would have cheese on toast or a plate of pasta with a glass of wine, slumped in front of the TV," she said. "I was tired all the time. My tummy looked and felt like a football most days, and I still had acne. I took several courses of the acne drug Roaccutane, and that's when my body said, 'Enough!' "
After visiting a nutritionist and learning about the effects of food on the body, Freer decided to become one. 
Smith has been open about his struggle with weight, even touching on it during a speech in February after one of several Grammy wins.
"Before I made this record, I was doing everything to try and get my music heard," Smith said. "I tried to lose weight, and I was making awful music, and it was only until that I started to be myself that the music started to flow and people started to listen."

International Edition
