We use cookies to improve your experience on this website. By continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies. Tell me more | Cookie preferences
International Edition
By Henry Hanks, CNN

Updated 2022 GMT (0422 HKT) January 18, 2015
 (CNN)We may not have seen the last of FBI Special Agents Fox Mulder and Dana Scully.
Fox Television Group co-chairmen and CEOs Gary Newman and Dana Walden confirmed rumors on Saturday that the network is interested in reviving the hit science fiction drama, "The X-Files." The series, which starred David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson as a pair of paranormal investigators, ran for nine seasons from 1993 to 2002.
"It's true that we've had some conversations on 'X-Files,'" Newman said, according to Entertainment Weekly.
"We're hopeful of being able to bring that back at some point."
The comments at the Television Critics Association's winter press tour were widely reported by such outlets as Variety, Entertainment Weekly and Deadline.
Walden said Fox had kept up good relations with creator Chris Carter and the co-stars.
"We're very hopeful, but it's hard. The actors are very busy. They have a lot going on. Chris has a lot on his plate, so it's just trying to carve out the time."
Regarding the recent hubbub about TXF, per usual, I know as much or as little as any of you. The show really is about M/S. We'll see.
Some fans saw the announcement as evidence of the success of Twitter hashtag campaign #XFiles2015. Anderson recently encouraged "X-philes" to keep the hashtag going.
Hey @FOXTV! Me, @GillianA and @NerdistDotCom want to see #XFiles2015! http://t.co/sJ2CycNwy8
The network has had some success in reviving old series. "Family Guy," which originally ran from 1999 to 2002, has been a hit since it was brought back in 2005. Critics and viewers raved over the summer 2014 reboot of "24" -- so much so that Fox has said it would be interested in continuing that series with or without star Kiefer Sutherland.
The network was full of news on Saturday, announcing new seasons for hit series "Empire," "Gotham" and "Brooklyn Nine-Nine." Casting has also begun for "Grease Live" (Julianne Hough and Vanessa Hudgens) and horror comedy "Scream Queens" (Lea Michele, Joe Mangianello and Ariana Grande).

International Edition
