 Musk, the CEO of SpaceX and Tesla (TSLA), tweeted Thursday that he will be building a Hyperloop test track, "most likely in Texas." 
 The billionaire entrepreneur first unveiled the concept in 2013. At the time he said that he wouldn't take an active role in the project's development. 
 The Hyperloop would consist of tubes in which pod-like cars would be pushed and pulled by a series of electric motors. They'd be similar to the pneumatic tubes that were once used to send mail and packages between buildings. 
 Related: Hyperloop: San Francisco to L.A. in 30 minutes 
 The system could cut the travel time from Los Angeles to San Francisco to 30 minutes, and building it could be dramatically cheaper than the high speed rail project that recently broke ground there. In fact, it was the high cost of the California train that prompted Musk to research the transportation system in the first place. 
 
 In California, the tube could be built above ground, roughly following the Interstate 5 highway between L.A. and S.F. The entire thing would be powered by solar panels mounted on top of the tube. 
 Related: The travel of tomorrow: dream vs. reality 
 In the tweet, Musk said companies and students would be able to use the test track in Texas. In a follow-up Tweet, he said he is also thinking of hosting an annual student Hyperloop race competition. 
 SpaceX would not release any further details Thursday. A spokesperson for Tesla declined to comment. 
 Musk was in Texas Thursday speaking at an annual transportation forum.  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
