 On Sunday, feminist website Femsplain experienced an attack on its servers and was down for several hours. But rather than damaging the site, news of the hack rallied supporters and highlighted the harassment and intimidation women face online. 
 It's exactly those issues that led Amber Gordon to start Femsplain last year. Her site was built to be a safe place for women to share their stories. 
 Gordon tweeted out news of the attack even before the site was back online. She said it was to bring visibility to online harassment, something she sees a lot of. She said she and her site are constantly targeted by "basically anyone who wants to silence women having opinions on the Internet." 
 Related: #HeForShe campaign goes corporate  
 "I said, 'Let's bring attention to this,' and that this is what happening on the day we're supposed to celebrate women's voices." 
 As word ricocheted across social media, she was met with widespread support. 
 Science blogger Phil Plait, who has over 350,000 followers, tweeted, "I hadn't heard about @femsplain until it was DDoS attacked today. Now 370,000 more know about it, too. Well played, misogynists!" (DDoS, or a Denial of Service Attack, is a way to take down a website by overwhelming it with traffic.) 
 Though the individuals behind the attack haven't been identified, Gordon said several people claimed responsibility with the hashtag #HappyInternationalWomensDay. Gordon and her team are working to identify the hackers. 
 Related: Germany's new 30% rule for women on boards 
 Femsplain, which launched in October, averages 250,000 unique users a month and recently raised about $30,000 on Kickstarter to further fund it. The site has been attacked frequently, but Gordon said this was the first time itwas brought down. 
 "The more attention we gain, the more people are going to find us and do damage, but also the more people that find us, are helping to support us as well," she said. 
 Once the site was back online, Gordon was amazed at the outpouring of support. "It felt like we had won a battle."  

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.


img#adchoice-logo {
	display: initial;
	margin-left: 5px;
}

© 2014 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .




