 Google made the announcement in a blog post Tuesday. The city joins several others where Google is laying down cable to provide incredibly fast Internet access. Atlanta, Georgia; Nashville, Tennessee; and both Charlotte and Raleigh-Durham in North Carolina are getting Fiber soon. 
 Google Fiber delivers Internet speeds of up to 1 gigabit per second. That's 100 times faster than most current high-speed Internet networks. You could download an entire music album in under six seconds and a feature-length movie in 38 seconds with Google Fiber. 
 The service has already received stellar reviews from customers in Kansas City, Missouri and Provo, Utah, where the ultra-fast Internet service costs $70 a month. Add TV and it bumps up the price to $120. Google is also offering slower, free Internet for at least seven years for a construction fee, which ranges between $30 and $300. 
 In recent years, the fast Internet service has created vibrant zones for high-tech startups, who benefit greatly from the faster access. 
 "I can't wait to see what the city does with superfast Internet," said Devin Baer, the associate city manager of Google Fiber in Salt Lake City. 
 
 Related: Google Fiber may be coming to city near you 
 Related: Verizon and AT&T sue government over net neutrality  

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.

Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.


img#adchoice-logo {
	display: initial;
	margin-left: 5px;
}

© 2014 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .




