We use cookies to improve your experience on this website. By continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies. Tell me more | Cookie preferences
International Edition
By Phoebe Parke

Updated 1234 GMT (2034 HKT) January 9, 2015
Tomorrow Transformed explores innovative approaches and opportunities available in business and society through technology.
 (CNN)Each year tech junkies from around the world gather in Las Vegas for International CES, the Consumer Electronics Show where innovators come to show off their latest prototypes, preview products and announce new releases. 
Although the show is over 40 years old, this year's event, held from January 6 - 9, saw some of the most futuristic products ever, from driverless vehicles to a revolutionary battery which, according to its makers, could let you fully charge a cell phone in minutes.
Here is some of the coolest tech from the show. 
1. Mercedes-Benz unveiled its driverless vehicle.  
RT @Teymur: The Mercedes-Benz F 015 Luxury in Motion on the Las Vegas Strip last night. #CES2015 #MBCES pic.twitter.com/1ZXU66nR7Y
Although the F 015 Luxury in Motion is just a concept car at the moment, the vehicle shows just how different Mercedes thinks our driving experience will be in the future with an automated driving option and luxury "mobile living space" interior. 
RT @FastCompany: Mercedes-Benz just dreamed up the first tempting self-driving car. http://t.co/aq79pkMi2x #CES2015 pic.twitter.com/fr3QbxoG7k
"Quality time in private space will be the true luxury goods in the future," said Dieter Zetsche, head of Mercedes-Benz cars in his CES keynote speech. 
2. People controlled objects with a wave of the hand. 
The latest version of Ring, by Logbar, was unveiled at CES 2015. The cloud control device allows you to do things such as play music from your phone or close curtains using gestures programmed into a smart phone app. 
The $269.99 device was named as a 2015 CES Innovation Awards Honoree in November 2014. 
READ: Tech trends that will change the world
3. A robotic arm played beer pong. 
Just beat a robot at beer pong. #CES2015 #onlyinVegas pic.twitter.com/NVza47e70R
Empire Robotic's Versaball is filled with a "sand like material." When air is pumped into the ball it softens, molding around an object, and then when air is removed, the green ball  hardens and grips objects from bricks to ping pong balls. 
4. People scooted around on intelligent skateboards. 
The IO Hawk is a "Intelligent mobility device" which can travel at 6.2 mph. It is powered by batteries and moves in response to pressure from your feet. 
The $1,799.99 device is 4.3 inches high and created a real buzz among the CES crowd. 
Hot at ces - io hawk - personalized transportation.  Like a Segway on a diet.  #CES2015 #gogoces pic.twitter.com/PzhS9xVbkA
5. Toshiba's unveiled its concept robot, ChihiraAico. 
Totally blown away at #CES2015 - like ChihiraAico, far from the average robot! pic.twitter.com/3TfUmzhxHk
ChihiraAico is probably the most realistic robot you've ever seen, and according to Toshiba will be used in the healthcare industry. 
The aim was to make a service robot which looked and behaved like a human, but some CES attendees did not find it comforting at all. 
I do not like looking at #ChihiraAico, she creeps me out.
6. A smart belt adjusted itself based on how much people ate. 
French company unveils the Belty at CES, a smart belt that automatically loosens & tightens, tracks your activity pic.twitter.com/iAeqnJMgFu
The Emiota Smart Belt keeps track of your overall health using your waist size and will also auto adjust after a big meal to keep you comfortable. 
The belt, which has not yet hit the market, can also nudge you when you've been stationary for too long. 
7. Phones were charged in minutes. 
Next big push for flash tech? Energy storage ... how about a mobile battery recharging in 30s! #StoreDot #OneToWatch http://t.co/ZDN3f7joRN
StoreDot, an Israeli start-up, showed off its super-fast charger, which it claims works up to 100 times faster than others and can be used for phones, tablets, laptops and wearable tech. 
StoreDot Smartphone Battery Turbo-Recharge: Significant battery boost in seconds. Full recharge in minutes. #CES2015 pic.twitter.com/M4pUQ5OhCS
The technology hasn't been proven and is not yet available to consumers, but according to the BBC the product already has backing from Samsung and Russian businessman Roman Abramovich and StoredDot says it has begun working on a product to charge electric vehicles. 
READ: Tech trends that will change the world
WATCH: High Fashion Meets High Tech at CES 2015
Worst gadgets of CES 2015
Could virtual traffic lights reduce your commute?

International Edition
