 The $3,300 GE Café series refrigerator features a Keurig (GMCR) K-Cup brewer that uses the fridge's filtered water to make a single cup of joe. 
 To make a cup of coffee, you snap the brewer out of the fridge's water tap, put in a K-Cup coffee pod and slide the brewer back into the water dispenser. The fridge will ask you what size you want. After the fridge heats up the water, you push a safety knob to the left (so you don't accidentally scald yourself), and your fridge will brew the coffee. 
 General Electric (GE) had already brought hot water dispensers to some of its refrigerators over the past couple years -- also a first for the industry. 
 Dan Goldstein, GE's refrigeration marketing manager, said the company surveyed customers who had bought the hot water dispensing fridges, and asked them what they'd like to see next. 
 "They asked us, 'When can we have a refrigerator that dispenses coffee or tea?'" Goldstein said. "In fact, two-thirds said they'd be interested in a single-serve hot beverage dispenser." 
 The fridge will be available in the fall. In the meantime, you'll have to reserve a place on your counter for coffee brewing.  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
