 The website ansar-alhaqq.net, a French jihadist site, currently redirects to Duck Duck Go, a search engine. Hackers using the Twitter handle @OpCharlieHebdo claimed responsibility. 
 Anonymous also named dozens of Twitter accounts that the hacktivist group says belong to jihadists. 
 The hackers posted the Twitter handles on Pastebin, a website that lets people post information anonymously online. 
 On Friday, Anonymous members announced hacking operation "#OpCharlieHebdo, declaring war on Islamic extremists. 
 Related: Anonymous declares war over Charlie Hebdo attack 
 In a video posted on YouTube, the group of hackers said they would track down websites and social media networks linked to terrorists, and take them down. 
 "We, Anonymous around the world, have decided to declare war on you the terrorists," it said. 
 Anonymous said the video was a message for "al Qaeda, the Islamic State and other terrorists," and promised to avenge the deaths in last week's attack. 
 Anonymous has hacked websites belonging to government departments, companies and other organizations. 
 The attack on Charlie Hebdo has prompted an outpouring of solidarity, sparking some news organizations to republish the magazine's most controversial cartoons -- including of the Prophet Mohammed. 
 On Sunday, millions of people, including world leaders, marched in an anti-terrorism rally in Paris. The French Mission to the United Nations called the massive gathering the largest in France's history. 
 The day was emotional and peaceful, a gesture of unity just days after Islamic extremists slaughtered 17 people. 
 --CNN's Margot Haddad contributed to this report. 
 Related: Retailers walk line with 'Je Suis Charlie' merchandise  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
