International Edition
By Tina Haupert, Health.com

Updated 1400 GMT (2200 HKT) February 20, 2015

 (Health.com)Even if you have already blown your New Year's resolution by now, maybe you still have a grand ambition to get healthier.  Did you know that could be as easy as thinking more about what you eat for breakfast?
One of the best ways to eat better, move more and lose weight — and to make realistic and long-lasting lifestyle changes — is by eating a healthy breakfast every morning. 
Studies show that eating breakfast jump-starts your metabolism, so it's an easy way to kick-start your efforts.
But when it comes to breakfasts, not all of them are created equal. In fact, some of them can actually derail your weight-loss efforts if you're not careful. Instead follow these breakfast rules to help you slim down.
Eat right away
Studies have found that eating breakfast helps keep your metabolism revved, so be sure to eat within 30-60 minutes of waking to take advantage of your body's full fat-burning potential. 
Eating first thing helps ensure that you don't feel so starved later in the day that you end up making bad eating choices for lunch or dinner. But what if you're not a breakfast person? 
If the thought of eating something that early in the morning turns your stomach, try sipping your breakfast with this Wake-Up Smoothie. 
The smoothie uses iced-coffee and coffee flavored low-fat frozen yogurt to repair sore muscles, cinnamon to help your metabolism, and almond milk, ground flaxseed, and ice cubes. Blend it all together and you've got a better wake-up drink than just about any other.
HEALTH.COM: 14 ways to boost your metabolism instantly
Load up on protein
A breakfast high in protein — think eggs and Greek yogurt — can ward off hunger pangs, helping you eat less and ultimately lose weight. 
One study found that women who ate egg breakfasts lost twice as much weight as women who started their days with bagels. 
The protein in eggs increases satiety and decreases hunger, which helps you eat fewer calories throughout the day. 
High-protein options are also a great choice for feeling full and energized all day long, because they digest more slowly than other breakfasts.
HEALTH.COM: 10 high-protein breakfast recipes
Add a banana
Eating a breakfast that's high in resistant starch, or RS, can help you stay full and help you burn more calories, because it prompts your body to use fat for energy. 
RS is found in foods like bananas and oats, so try this Banana Nut Oatmeal for a seriously satisfying and delicious breakfast!

International Edition
