 The Apple (AAPL, Tech30) CEO shared that detail last year when he came out as gay. Cook wrote in a landmark op-ed that he was inspired by King's words on public service: "Life's most persistent and urgent question is, 'What are you doing for others?' 
 This belief appears to be reflected in Apple's policy for employees on Martin Luther King Day. 
 Related: 5 things Steve Jobs said Apple would never do - and Apple is doing 
 Unlike many other big tech firms, Apple does not give its employees a paid vacation day on Monday's federal holiday, which is also known as the MLK Day of Service. 
 Instead, the company has doubled the amount of money it donates to charity for employees who choose to volunteer. 
 For every hour of community service an employee does, Apple will donate $50 to charity, up from its normal $25 match. The policy is in effect for the entire first quarter and applies to all employees, including Apple Store workers. 
 "There is no greater way to celebrate [King's] legacy than to serve the communities where we live and work," wrote Denise Young Smith, head human resources at Apple, in a memo obtained by the San Jose Mercury News. 
 Still, critics say Apple should give employees the day off. 
 A petition asking Apple to give employees Martin Luther King Day off has received nearly 200 signatures. 
 The petition on Coworker.org says Apple's policy does not go far enough, especially considering that the iPhone maker has used King's image in its advertising. 
 Related: Apple's new security feature not good enough 
 Like most big Silicon Valley companies, Apple's workforce is overwhelmingly male and predominately white. 
 "While Apple has generous vacation policies in many ways, as a leader in this area, Apple can surely participate in this important historic holiday as well," writes Aimée Castenell, the activist who started the petition, on Coworker.org. "By joining other companies in observing MLK Day, Apple will demonstrate its commitment to a diverse staff and customer base and to the achievements of the civil rights movement." 
 A spokeswoman said Apple would not comment on the petition.  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
