 Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, one of the world's largest banks, will introduce a humanoid robot intro branches starting this spring. 
 The robot, named NAO, will be able to answer customers' questions about the bank's services, said spokesperson Kazunobu Takahara. 
 Nao's a bit smaller than your average bank teller -- he is just 23 inches tall and weighs about 9 pounds. 
 Nao makes up for it in linguistic aptitude. He understands 19 languages, and Mitsubishi UFJ hopes he'll help handle the influx of foreign customers for the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. The bank will introduce one or two NAOs as a trial, but plans to expand its robotic staff if customers are pleased. 
 
 "We've hired NAO not to reduce the workforce at the bank, but to take advantage of the advanced technology to provide new services," said Takahara. 
 NAO can also analyze visitors' facial expressions and tone of voice, data the bank plans to use when designing new financial services. 
 The robot was developed by French company Alderbaran Robotics, which is owned by Japan's Softbank. According to Alderbaran's website, NAO was born in 2006. Since then "he has been constantly evolving to please, amuse, understand and love you," the website explains. 
 Related: Robots will replace fast-food workers  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
