The formation in 1967 of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, with Mr Lee as one of the founding fathers, helped draw the region together.

Each generational change brought new frequency bands, higher speeds and greater emphasis on streaming data rather than simply transmitting voice.

Given the global shortage of spectrum, most mobile telecoms firms have snapped up frequencies wherever they can. As a result, few of their chunks of spectrum are contiguous

All of which suggests that 5G will need base stations closer to users than current cellular towers. As it so happens, that is already a trend. 

Today’s MIMO implementations tend to have three or four antennas on both the transmitting and the receiving ends.

The new Windows offers a familiar experience to Windows 7 users who never made the jump to Windows 8, while still bringing some innovations to the PC that tablet and smartphone users have become accustomed to.

Microsoft's Siri-like Cortana voice assistant will live in the task bar. You can run multiple desktops. A new notification and "action" center gives you a quick glance at your PC's status.

Windows 10 will be a free upgrade for current Windows 7 and 8.1 users, as well as Windows Phone 8.1 customers

The app translates messages so users can chat to people who speak another language. Roughly 25% of Paktor's matches are between singles across borders.

"Tinder is bright red, whereas we take toned down colors like blue, purple, green -- it calms," said Joseph Phua, founder of Singapore-based dating app Paktor.

Ronaldo, who had hit the crossbar with an early chance, prodded home after a sublime backheel assist from Karim Benzema and his goal was the signal for a spell of dominance by the visitors.

But Suarez, scoring his eighth goal in the last nine games, knocked the stuffing out of Real, who offered little threat after his decisive goal.

Neither World Player of the Year Ronaldo, despite his goal, or Messi, despite his assist, was also at their best in a match which could well decide the outcome of the La Liga title.

Real will attempt to close the gap as well as defending the Champions League title, starting with a quarterfinal against city rival Atletico, the reigning La Liga champion.

Some families encounter difficulties paying membership fees due to parental unemployment. Yet, the club does all it can to facilitate youth participation.

Newcomers caused consternation, as did the baby-boomers of the 1960s. Youth's disinterest in athletics fed the era's sports crisis, a lack of medals and victories at international competitions.

Football plays the same role today, but the constant lure of the Internet and social media complicate the situation. Some kids become socially isolated from their peers the more they become involved in the online world.

It's based on a story arc from almost a decade ago, which tackled issues of freedom versus security, with the two heroes going toe to toe against one another.

If you look at the ideas that that story had, Iron Man thought superheroes should have to register with the government, and become something of a police force.

I felt the original "Civil War" explored those questions very well. If I was going to play in this sandbox, I wanted to ask my own questions.

The breezy comedy had all the key elements of romantic fantasy: a plucky, down-on-her-luck heroine, a rich, dashing prince and a Cinderella love story with a fairy-tale ending.

Most sex workers that Hail-Jares encounters through street-based outreach are not in it for a lark, or because they lack the drive to succeed, she says.

Some of Madison's revelations won't be news to anyone who's ever read about the recent life of Hefner, the Playboy founder, whose most recent marriage was to Crystal Harris in 2012.

I think my stories will surprise people, and I'm looking forward to lifting the veil of mystique and clearing up the misconceptions so often associated with my life.

Airport and paradise are two words destined never to sit next to each other in the same sentence, but looking at the plans for Singapore's new airport that could soon change.

Maintaining Singapore's reputation as the "garden city," Jewel Changi's centerpiece will be Forest Valley, a five-story garden with thousands of trees, ferns and shrubs.

On the top level, Canopy Park will have gardens, walking trails, playgrounds and eateries spanning approximately 13,000 square meters.

The airport expects a new Terminal 4 opening in 2017 for Cathay Pacific and Jewel in 2018 to bring 85 million passengers a year.

The happiest of countries -- many of which are in Scandinavia according to the most recent World Happiness Report -- have a robust combination of higher life expectancy, gross domestic product per capita, social support, generosity, freedom to make life choices and lower perceptions of corruption.

If you prefer to get away from the hustle and bustle of Vienna, have a meal at the Pogusch Country Inn, the sister restaurant of the famous Steirereck in Vienna. To extend your pleasure, book a room at the inn and enjoy a weekend in the country.

For a more active view of the tulips, take a bike tour through Holland's flower growing region. Fit travelers can bike the Ijsselmeer tour, which winds through the country for about 400 kilometers (about 250 miles) over eight days.

The world's second largest economy poured more than $22 billion into deals in western Europe in 2014, according to global merger and acquisition tracker Dealogic. That's about four times as much as the previous year.

A weak euro and signs of an economic recovery have spurred China to step up its push into Europe. Analysts at Deloitte said depressed asset prices in the euro zone have created "vast opportunities for bargain seekers in China."

Outside the eurozone, the U.K. is another hot spot. So far this year it's drawn $1.3 billion in acquisitions from China. London's real estate market continues to attract steady investment flows from the country.

The only other assets class that comes close is real estate investment trusts (REITs), which trade like stocks but are companies that hold office buildings, malls and other properties and make money off the rents.

As investors know, it's hard to know when markets will be up or down, but history continues to show that stocks do best over the long-term.

Today he owns about 1,225 shares of Apple stock and has earned a net profit of around $45,000. It's all unrealized gains at this point, since he's not planning on selling any time soon.

But he realized that he also owned mutual funds. Since Apple is the biggest public company on the planet, many of his funds also had large stakes in Apple. He ran the numbers and realized that Apple stock was nearly 20% of his portfolio. That's a very, very big bet on one company.

The elder Lee retained his influence around the world. "This is one of the legendary figures of Asia in the 20th and 21st centuries," U.S. President Barack Obama said during a meeting with Lee at the White House in October 2009.

The city Lee took control of in 1959 was still recovering from the ravages of war and could not have been more different from today's Singapore. However, Lee told CNN he had no "great vision of transformation."

The ranks of the opposition, civil society and labor movement have been decimated in the last 50 years through imprisonment without trial and criminal prosecution, and nearly every newspaper, TV channel and radio station is owned and run by the state

How Singapore copes with these democratic demands will be key to its success in its second half-century, but those demands are unlikely to detract from Lee's achievements in its first 50 years.

He concentrated on attracting investment and creating jobs; first finding a successful niche in electronics manufacturing by touting Singapore as an alternative to Hong Kong, which he said was in turmoil due to the Cultural Revolution in China.

While Lee is likely to be remembered with affection and pride by many Singaporeans, a younger generation, with no memory of the poverty and violence that marked the country's birth, is questioning the Lee dynasty's control of Singaporean politics and pushing for greater democracy.

In a 2014 article for CNN, opposition politician Dr. Chee Soon Juan criticized Singapore's authoritarian system, blaming a lack of dissenting views for economic inequality and worsening working conditions.

The Ebola outbreak, ravaging primarily Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, is a year old today. According to one official count, it's infected 24,000 people and killed 10,000.

September 20, a Liberian named Thomas Duncan arrived in Dallas to visit relatives. He had been unknowingly exposed to the Ebola virus -- and he became the first known case of Ebola diagnosed in the U.S. He died a few days later.

"We cannot respond to a crisis of this nature and this scale in the usual ways. We need more courage, more creativity, and far, far more resources."

By October, when Sierra Leone was reporting a rate of five infections an hour, UNICEF said it had received only 25% of the $200 million it needed for emergency assistance for families affected by Ebola in the region.

Ladies, science has proven what you've been saying all along: A man's memory is worse than yours. Not only that, but their brains are smaller, at least the part that controls memories.
