International Edition
By Naomi Ng, for CNN

Updated 2234 GMT (0534 HKT) March 30, 2015
Hong Kong (CNN)An impressive art collection assembled by the late actress and Hollywood icon, Lauren Bacall, is officially ready for purchase.
The collection, which includes works by some of the greatest artists of the 20th century, goes under the hammer in New York on March 31, following a tour of Hong Kong, Paris, London and Los Angeles. 
Bacall, who died in August 2014 at the age of 89, first shot to international fame in 1944 with her first film, "To Have And Have Not." 
That was also when the husky-voiced starlet met her future husband, Humphrey Bogart.
At the recent 2015 Golden Globes, George Clooney paid tribute to the silver screen queen in his award winning speech.
"I don't remember what awards Lauren Bacall won, I just remember her saying: 'You know how to whistle, don't you Steve. You just put your lips together and blow.'" said Clooney, referring to one of her most legendary lines from her first movie.
The 750-piece collection, estimated to be worth $3 million, features bronze sculptures, jewelry, and a number of decorative arts and paintings, which will be sold at Bonhams auction house in New York. 
"Her collection is truly a reflection of her extraordinary taste and remarkable life," said Jon King, Bonhams' vice president.
'Eclectic taste'
Among the 50 items highlighted in the auction preview are six bronze maquettes by Henry Moore, Britain's greatest 20th century sculptor and one of Bacall's favorite artists, whom she developed a close relationship with. The maquettes are estimated to range in value from $12,000 to $60,000.
Also for sale are some of Bacall's most loved jewelry pieces, created by legendary French designer Jean Schlumberger, most known for his work at Tiffany & Co. 
A rose diamond camel brooch by British jeweler Elizabeth Gage is accompanied by the original drawing and correspondence from the designer, which shows the close-knit relationship Bacall had with Gage. 
The wide-ranging collection is expected to appeal to a variety of collectors: fine arts and antiques dealers, fans of Lauren Bacall and Humphrey Bogart, as well as memorabilia enthusiasts. 
Most of the items to be auctioned come from the apartment in New York's Dakota Building that she shared with her second husband, actor Jason Robards, until 1969. But King said fans of Humphrey Bogart will be pleased to know some of the items are also from their shared residence in Los Angeles.
King, who got to know Bacall in her late years, said the collection reflects the actress' eclectic taste, and there was only one principle she applied to collecting: 
"Everything had to kind of speak to her, to catch her eye. She loved form, she loved texture, she loved color. And she loved mixing it all up. She said that when you walked into her house, what she liked was that it was never boring," King said.
"You could walk into the same room a hundred times, and see something new every time."

International Edition
