We use cookies to improve your experience on this website. By continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies. Tell me more | Cookie preferences
International Edition
By Ed Payne, CNN

Updated 0849 GMT (1649 HKT) January 16, 2015
 (CNN)The terror threat spreads in Europe.  The U.S. eases Cuba travel restrictions.  And Duke backs away from allowing a Muslim call to prayer.
It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.
BELGIUM ANTI-TERROR OPERATION
Operation thwarted: Belgian police pounced on a radical terror cell

FRANCE ATTACKS
Adieu: The goodbyes continue in the aftermath of the terror attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices last week.  Funerals are being held today for magazine editor Stephane "Charb" Charbonnier, illustrator Philippe Honore and Algerian-born copy editor Mustapha Ourrad.  They were among the 12 killed when brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi burst into the newsroom and gunned down staffers.  Another 11 were wounded.  In addition, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met in Paris today with French President Francois Hollande and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius.

CUBA RESTRICTIONS EASED
Havana here we come: It just got a lot easier for Americans to travel to Cuba.  The Obama Administration has softened restrictions.  Cuban Americans traveling to see family members, American officials on government trips, journalists on assignment on the island as well as everyday citizens visiting for educational, cultural, religious reasons will no longer need permission first.  President Barack Obama originally announced the change in U.S. policy on Cuba on Dec. 17.

OKLAHOMA EXECUTION
Death sentence: Oklahoma has executed its first inmate since a controversial lethal injection in April.  Charles Frederick Warner was put to death last night for the rape and murder of his then-girlfriend's 11-month-old daughter in the summer of 1997.  Warner was originally scheduled to die on the same night as Clayton Lockett -- April 29, 2014 -- but the execution was called off after the state took 43 minutes to execute Lockett.  He was convulsing and writhing on the gurney.  The execution was halted, but Lockett eventually died.  His execution was the first in the state to use a new cocktail of drugs to end his life.
DUKE MUSLIM PRAYERS
No, let's not: Duke University

There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.
Be sure to tune in to "New Day," from 6 to 9 a.m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN.com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!

International Edition
