
Deflation in the eurozone eased in March as the unemployment rate dipped slightly in February, figures show.
The EU's statistics office figures found consumer prices fell by 0.1% in March from a year earlier, as against a 0.3% fall last month.
The downward pressure on prices has come from the drop in energy costs, but which now appear to be levelling out.
The unemployment rate in the eurozone fell from 11.4% to 11.3% in February. 
The total decline of 329,000 in the number of eurozone jobless in the three months to February is the largest three-month fall since the three months to April 2007.
The numbers suggest businesses are becoming more willing to step up hiring encouraged by very low oil prices, a markedly weaker euro and a major stimulus from the European Central Bank (ECB).
In January the ECB announced a quantitative easing programme to purchase more than €1tn ($1.07tn, £730bn) in assets - pumping money into the banking system to boost the eurozone economy, and stave off deflation.
Despite the headline rate rising to -0.1%, core annual inflation - which excludes energy and food prices - continued to fall, dropping to 0.6% from  0.7% in February. 
Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist at Capital Economics, said: "The latest data on eurozone inflation and unemployment do little to diminish the danger of a prolonged period of deflation in the currency union. 
"The increase was driven entirely by higher food and energy inflation, no doubt partly reflecting the drop in the euro during the month." 
The winner of Nigeria's presidential election, Muhammadu Buhari, hails a "vote for change" and thanks beaten rival Goodluck Jonathan.
What choices would you make?
The woman saving girls from the 'cutting season' 
What would Karl Marx make of the 21st Century?
Trevor Noah fans rally after backlash
How the people of Bengal faced starvation during WW2
Can you win at anything with enough practice?
The luxury goods that speak for themselves
An American reporter on the trail of Nigel Farage
The man who gave his forgeries to museums - and fooled them  

