
 How hydrogen could help decarbonise the world 
How hydrogen could help decarbonise the world
Oil prices rise and shares fall after Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest crude exporter, and its allies launch airstrikes on rebel targets in Yemen.
South Africa's power utility Eskom tells four top officials to step aside while it investigates the problems at the firm, including recent power cuts.
Plans to generate electricity from the world's first series of tidal lagoons are unveiled in the UK, with sites proposed in Wales, Somerset and Cumbria.
Oil services company Archer confirms it is losing more than 400 jobs from its UK operations, many of which are based in Aberdeen.
The UK offshore oil and gas industry saw its worst performance for four decades last year, according to a survey by Oil & Gas UK.
The Texan oil industry has been hit hard by the recent downturn in prices, but the workers are undaunted.
While Israel and Cyprus have been moving to capitalise on oil and gas resources in the Mediterranean Sea, Lebanon has been lagging behind.
Falling world oil prices have hit the market for off-shore oil rigs, many of which are now being mothballed and left idle.
Lower oil prices will fail to give a "significant boost" to global growth in the next two years, according to a report by Moody's.
French energy group EDF has pushed back an investment decision on a £16bn project to build two nuclear energy reactors in Hinkley Point, Somerset.
The challenge of harnessing the power of the ocean
China's great energy rethink
Could freezing water provide for all our heating needs?
Is wind power coming of age?
 Is the era of free electricity approaching?
Has nuclear power had its day?
Are low oil prices here to stay?
How US energy independence could change the world
Find out if you are paying over the odds
UK offshore oil and gas data makes grim reading
How did oil come to run our world?
It's shocking how vital oil still is
How the low oil price is affecting the continent
BP and the falling price of oil - interactive video
With the oil price falling, how low will petrol prices go?
Will the falling oil price undermine green energy? 
Is fracking viable at current prices?
