 Research by estate agents Savills shows U.K. houses and apartments were worth £5.75 trillion ($8.7 trillion) in 2014, an increase of almost one trillion pounds since 2009. 
 London's stock of homes is now worth as much as Brazil's annual GDP -- $2.2 trillion. 
 The city's economy has rebounded strongly since the financial crash and that has been reflected in soaring house prices. They're up 61% in the last five years, and 20% last year alone, although there are signs that the pace is slowing. 
 The gains have been driven by a combination of stronger domestic demand and an influx of cash from wealthy Russian and Chinese buyers. 
 Properties in two of London's most expensive boroughs -- Westminster, and Kensington and Chelsea -- are together worth $345 billion. That's more than the GDP of Denmark, the world's 35th biggest economy. 
 While prices have been rising in almost every region of the country, the number of homes financed by a mortgage has fallen by 800,000 in five years. Younger workers are finding it harder to save the down payments and are renting in ever greater numbers instead.  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
