 The company's staffing level jumped by 44% in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, according to a company filing, growing Facebook's headcount to 8,348 jobs as of that date. Facebook's year-end employment level is not yet available. 
 Many of the job openings on the company's site are for advertising sales. There are 126 ad sales job postings listed. 
 But Facebook's move into new areas is also fueling its growth. Its Oculus virtual reality unit has 52 job openings listed, and its effort to have drones provide Internet access to different parts of the globe has the company looking to hire aerospace mechanical technicians, avionics engineers and a flight test manager. 
 Related: Facebook, Apple pay to freeze employees' eggs 
 The company is also looking for 43 recruiters and 28 human resources job openings to help it handle the flood of hiring it expects to do. 
 Facebook (FB, Tech30) was not immediately available for comment on the hiring plans, which were first detailed in a story by wire service Reuters. 
 "We are an ambitious company run by an ambitious CEO," Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg told Reuters in an interview. "Our users are growing and our business is growing and we want to support that." 
 Related: Mark Zuckerberg wants to make us all smarter 
 Facebook still has a relatively lean workforce compared to other tech companies. LinkedIn (LNKD, Tech30), another social networking company, had just over 5,000 employees despite having only one-fifth of the revenue of Facebook.  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
