 Trump specifically called out the local airport director Bruce Pelly for diverting all departing flights over the Mar-a-Lago mansion, to seek revenge over a 20-year-old lawsuit. 
 "The county's and Bruce Pelly's efforts in this regard are both deliberate and malicious, and motivated by personal animosity towards Donald Trump," reads the lawsuit, which was filed in Palm Beach County Court on Jan. 6. 
 The lawsuit says Pelly wants to get back at Trump for suing him in 1995 and blocking his plans to expand the airport. 
 "Pelly is seeking revenge by attacking Mar-a-Lago from the air," according to the lawsuit. 
 Related: Gulfstream's new $54 million: Here's what you get 
 Adding insult to injury, Trump is forced to fly his own private jet over his club, according to his lawyer, John Marion of Sellars, Marion & Bachi. 
 Lawyers for Palm Beach County, who represent Pelly, declined to comment. 
 Trump bought the Spanish-tiled oceanside mansion in 1985 and it is listed on the National Register of Historical Places. The lawsuit said that it was built in 1927, and therefore predates the existence of the airport, which was built in the 1930s. It also predates the introduction of jet aircraft in the 1950s. 
 Trump called the flights a "horrible injustice" and that, despite restoration, the vintage club is "particularly susceptible to the corrosive bombardment" from jet aircraft. 
 Related: The Donald wins. Trump name coming off casino 
 "The overflights of Mar-a-Lago have caused a direct and substantial invasion of the property by excessive, unreasonable, unwarranted and uninvited noise, vibrations, fumes, pollution and residue, which cause direct physical damage to Mar-a-Lago," reads the lawsuit. 
 The lawsuit claims the mansion is "by far and away the most important historical structure in Palm Beach and one of the most important in Florida and, indeed, the United States."  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
