 Uber has run into problems with regulators in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere who have shown a willingness to shut down its popular taxi-service app. The company has sparked or found itself at the center of controversy after controversy. 
 While traditional transportation providers cry foul at Uber's tactics, the company said the competition and technology it brings is good for governments and local economies. 
 "Uber can share smart data with partner cities to help them manage growth, reduce congestion and greenhouse gas emissions and expand public transportation," the company said in a blog post as CEO Travis Kalanick unveiled its pitch at a major tech industry conference in Germany. 
 Related: Where Uber prices surged the most 
 Specifically, it said an expansion of Uber across Europe would "take 400,000 cars off the road" this year. It did not provide details about how it arrived at the vehicle and job numbers. 
 The company also confronted one of the key criticisms of its service: passenger safety. The company said it would look for ways to improve and expand its system of background checks for potential drivers, "and improve communication with local officials and law enforcement." 
 Related: Taxi drivers strike in China over steep fees ... and Uber  
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.
