The NFL released 32 compensatory picks Monday evening—meaning we now know the full order for the 2015 draft. 
With free agency, trades and now compensatory picks coming into focus, the draft is starting to line up. Of course we can't know yet which teams will be willing to trade picks to move up or down the board, but team needs and player value are becoming much more solid. And with that, it's time for a complete mock draft.
Pick by pick, here's how the 2015 NFL draft looks five weeks out. This is a look not at what I would do as general manager of each team, per se, but what I'm hearing and predicting will happen based on needs, player value and holes expected to be filled between now and April 30.
The first round of the NFL draft is still a long time away, but here's an educated guess at what will happen when Commissioner Roger Goodell walks to the podium in Chicago.
 
Note: The order of picks in this mock draft represents the author's best approximation of the 2015 NFL Draft order. The complete and official order of picks has not yet been disclosed. 
The Pick: Quarterback Jameis Winston, Florida State
There is no guarantee the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will draft Jameis Winston with the No. 1 overall pick, but it really, really looks that way as of now. 
The team released veteran quarterback Josh McCown and made zero moves to add help or competition for incumbent Mike Glennon. Those signs all point to a new quarterback coming in—and with the No. 1 pick in this draft and no need to add a defensive tackle (Leonard Williams) or wide receiver (Kevin White), there are again more signs pointing to a quarterback.
There's also the point that the Buccaneers need Winston. His value at No. 1 overall is good, and the need also exists. They need a franchise quarterback in Tampa, and Winston can be that player.
The Pick: Quarterback Marcus Mariota, Oregon
What will the Tennessee Titans do with the No. 2 pick in the draft? No one really knows. We can make educated guesses about what they will do, but no one really can say with any certainty whether they'll address the quarterback position or look to continue building on defense.
At quarterback, the Titans selected Zach Mettenberger in the sixth round of the 2014 draft, and he showed some promise in limited time during his rookie season. But Mettenberger has seen his last two seasons end with injury and is a limited player in the pocket. Mettenberger has upside, but is he worth passing over Marcus Mariota?
Mariota has gone from clear-cut No. 1 pick to developmental player, and there's some truth to both. He is talented—athletic, accurate, smart and a high-character leader—and has big upside potential when you look at his work ethic and quarterback traits. He may not be what Ken Whisenhunt historically looks for in a quarterback, but the league is changing and the Titans need the franchise quarterback they haven't had since Steve McNair.
The Pick: Edge Vic Beasley, Clemson
Prepare to hear a lot about the "Leo" position between now and the NFL draft. And there's a good reason for that.
Gus Bradley's defense needs pass-rushers, but the Jaguars aren't looking for your classic 4-3 defensive end. They're looking for Cliff Avril—but better. Avril, a smaller, faster pass-rusher who can beat tackles with leverage and speed. And Vic Beasley, while not the best edge-rusher on the board—that's Dante Fowler—may be the better scheme fit for Jacksonville.
Beasley and Dan Skuta—playing the "Otto" position—will give the right side of the defense a new look while Jared Odrick beefs up the left side to give the Jaguars a defensive front seven they haven't had since Tom Coughlin. 
The Pick: Wide Receiver Kevin White, West Virginia
Fans of the Oakland Raiders—a lot of them, at least—want Leonard Williams from USC here. Williams, the Southern California kid and longtime Raiders fan, is in the conversation both in terms of need and best player available. But he can't stretch the field or give Derek Carr a big, strong wide receiver on the edge. Kevin White can.
White isn't as polished as Amari Cooper—there is no doubting that—but he might be the next Dez Bryant. He's big, strong, fast and explosive after the catch and up the field. White can beat you on short, intermediate and deep routes. Cooper gives you more polish from Day 1 and he can line up in more places on the field, but White is a home run hitter. The Raiders need a home run hitter. 
The Pick: Defensive Lineman Leonard Williams, USC 
The "fall" for Leonard Williams ends at No. 5, and new general manager Scot McCloughan will be one happy camper because of it.
Washington added Terrance Knighton, Stephen Paea and Ricky Jean-Francois to its defensive line this offseason to go along with Jason Hatcher, but outside of Knighton at nose tackle, none of these players will strike fear in offensive coordinators. And while some will want an edge-rusher here to play opposite Ryan Kerrigan, it's worth remembering that the team picked Trent Murphy in the second round last year.
Williams can play the 5-technique position from Day 1 and become the team's second most impactful defender behind Kerrigan. He's athletic, strong, versatile and can bump inside to the 3-technique on passing downs when the team goes to a four-man front.
The Pick: Edge Dante Fowler, Florida
The New York Jets will be very happy to see Dante Fowler still on the board when pick No. 6 comes up. New head coach Todd Bowles got his shutdown cornerback in Darrelle Revis, filled out the rest of the secondary in free agency and is now free to go draft a blue-chip pass-rusher.
Fowler is an ideal player for Bowles' scheme because he can play inside or outside with his hand in the dirt or up in a two-point stance. He's agile, aggressive, strong, long and one of the most violent players in the entire draft. 
Fowler will give Bowles what he didn't have in Arizona—a truly elite pass-rushing prospect.
The Pick: Wide Receiver Amari Cooper, Alabama
Best player available. It's not just a talking point on draft weekend—it's a draft philosophy (and a smart one at that). The Chicago Bears have needs all over the board, but the best way for general manager Ryan Pace to rebuild this team is by ignoring need and adding as much talent as possible. That's where best player available—or highest graded player available—comes into play.
Amari Cooper is the best player available. And thanks to the Bears' moves in free agency—Pernell McPhee and Antrel Rolle are the big ones—they're now free to go after a best-player situation. But this is also about a need. The Bears shipped Brandon Marshall to the Jets, and now have Eddie Royal and Marquess Wilson opposite Alshon Jeffery. Fine players, sure, but not Amari Cooper-like talents. 
With seven rounds of draft picks, the Bears can start reloading on defense after they get a blue-chip wide receiver prospect in Round 1.
The Pick: Edge Randy Gregory, Nebraska
Randy Gregory might not seem like a fit in the 4-3 defense the Atlanta Falcons are running, but look at head coach Dan Quinn's defenses in Seattle and you'll see Cliff Avril and Bruce Irvin. Gregory can fill that edge-rusher role for Atlanta by playing both defensive end and linebacker in the Falcons' scheme.
Gregory can play outside linebacker or defensive end and has rare agility and movement skills in space. He dominated at a low weight at Nebraska, and while he may never be a true 4-3 defensive end, the Falcons don't need him to be. They need him to be an attacking, aggressive, athletic edge-rusher, which he is.
The Pick: Guard Brandon Scherff, Iowa
Stability along the offensive line has been nonexistent in New York, and now Eli Manning enters a contract year behind an offensive line that needs an infusion of talent. 
At pick No. 9, the Giants have to consider an upgrade on the offensive line. General manager Jerry Reese has historically gone for playmakers and versatile offensive linemen in the past, and Iowa's Brandon Scherff is the best offensive lineman in this draft and a Day 1 starter for the Giants at guard. And he's not just any ol' guard prospect. He's a Pro Bowl-caliber prospect.
Taking care of Manning as he heads into the last phase of his career has to be a priority for the Giants, and adding Scherff to the line does that. 
The Pick: Cornerback Marcus Peters, Washington
There is a lot of talk about drafting the highest graded player on your board, and that's exactly what the St. Louis Rams should do.
Years of need-based drafting led this team to mediocrity, but in the 2014 class, the Rams went with a high grade (Aaron Donald) over a need and landed the Defensive Rookie of the Year. Lightning could strike twice with Marcus Peters as the highest graded player left on my board.
Peters isn't an immediate need in St. Louis, but he could make the trio at cornerback (with Janoris Jenkins and E.J. Gaines) remarkably talented for a young group. With an elite defensive line, Akeem Ayers filling the hole at linebacker and offensive weapons in place, this is the right pick for the Rams.
The Pick: Wide Receiver DeVante Parker, Louisville
Reunited and it feels so good. Teddy Bridgewater and DeVante Parker are back together making beautiful music, this time in the NFL.
Parker is more than just a familiar face for Bridgewater, though. He's a legitimate No. 1 receiver prospect. Parker is 6'3", 209 pounds and can move with a 4.45 in the 40. He's also an exceptional jump ball player who can win in the end zone with size and physicality. Parker is a freak athlete and would give Bridgewater the target he needs in the red zone and a threat to keep defenses honest.
The Pick: Nose Tackle Danny Shelton, Washington
The most exciting part of the Phil Taylor era was Peyton Hillis announcing the pick as the Madden cover boy four years ago. Taylor hasn't lived up to his first-round status, and it's time to replace him. Danny Shelton is a big, bad, pure stud at nose tackle.
Shelton is a good value at No. 12 and a massive (literally and figuratively) need for the Browns. He can be the anchor they lack in the middle of the defense and free up inside linebackers to make plays inside and outside the tackle box.
Drafting a nose tackle at No. 12 may not be a sexy pick, but it's the right pick for Cleveland as the team looks to get a foundation piece on defense.
The Pick: Edge Shane Ray, Missouri
The New Orleans Saints mortgaged their two best offensive weapons outside of Drew Brees for extra draft picks so general manager Mickey Loomis could build a defense. Now he needs to build a defense worthy of shipping Jimmy Graham to Seattle and Kenny Stills to Miami.
A good start is getting a pass rush worthy of the 3-4 defense. Junior Galette is a good player, but he's not able to do it all alone on the edge. Add in Missouri's electric Shane Ray, however, and now you have a pass-rushing duo worth talking about.
Ray, Galette, Kenny Vaccaro, Cameron Jordan, Keenan Lewis and a healthy Jairus Byrd give defensive coordinator Rob Ryan and head coach Sean Payton one heck of a defensive core.
The Pick: Linebacker Shaq Thompson, Washington
The Miami Dolphins have been aggressively filling needs in free agency and through trades. Now we have a team with a promising young quarterback, a talented running back, two young studs at receiver and an offensive line supported by one of the best front fours in football on defense. 
That gives the front office flexibility in the draft. And with versatile linebacker Shaq Thompson on the board, the Dolphins can grab their strong-side linebacker of the present and the future to pair with Jelani Jenkins, building a very fast, very scary linebacker corps.
The Pick: Cornerback Ronald Darby, Florida State
The San Francisco 49ers' offseason has been tumultuous to say the least. Jim Harbaugh, Frank Gore, Mike Iupati, Patrick Willis, Chris Borland, Perrish Cox and Chris Culliver are all gone. Sure, they've added Torrey Smith, Reggie Bush and Darnell Dockett, but this team needs to turn its nine draft picks into contributors.
General manager Trent Baalke has used previous drafts to add talent to the roster, with many of the players essentially taking a redshirt year in the pros. At pick No. 15, he needs an instant impact.
Ronald Darby has the speed, instincts and confidence to be an outside cornerback from Day 1 in the NFL. The 49ers need that, as the cornerback depth chart that was weak to begin with has been hit hard by free agency. Darby gives them the potential No. 1 cornerback this roster has long lacked.
The Pick: Edge Bud Dupree, Kentucky
The Houston Texans are in an interesting situation at outside linebacker. Brooks Reed left for Atlanta in free agency, former first-rounder Whitney Mercilus hasn't been spectacular and last year's No. 1 overall pick, Jadeveon Clowney, had the dreaded microfracture surgery on his knee and may not be ready for the start of the 2015 season. What to do?
The easy choice for general manager Rick Smith is to draft the best edge-rusher on the board if he's a value on the Texans' board—and Bud Dupree should be.
A freak athlete capable of playing defensive end or outside linebacker, Dupree is a monster off the ball and can make an impact as a true three-down defender. He's a great fit for Romeo Crennel's defense and will be a nice addition for linebackers coach Mike Vrabel to work with.
The Pick: Running Back Todd Gurley, Georgia
The San Diego Chargers are entering a contract year for quarterback Philip Rivers and are undergoing a bit of an identity change on offense. Head coach Mike McCoy should see a roster set up for a power run game and realize that's the best way to keep the ball out of Peyton Manning's hands in the AFC West. But the Chargers need a power back to execute in a power run game.
Todd Gurley would be a top-10 player in this draft class if healthy, but an ACL tear suffered against Auburn in early November has his timetable for 2015 in question. Even so, he's good enough to gamble on in the middle of the first round. Gurley, when healthy, looked like the second coming of Shaun Alexander, and has the talent to immediately impact the game when he's on the field. 
The Pick: Wide Receiver Dorial Green-Beckham, Missouri
The Kansas City Chiefs have plenty of needs, which is why general manager John Dorsey and head coach Andy Reid can go into this draft set on drafting the best player available. That just so happens to be wide receiver Dorial Green-Beckham from Missouri.
I've been vocal as saying the Chiefs and Rams must be careful with Green-Beckham because of his history of off-field issues in the state of Missouri, but Reid has a history of taking in players with off-field issues and getting the best out of them. Remember, it was Reid who took in Michael Vick when he got out of prison. Green-Beckham has skeletons in his closet, but on the field, he's a dynamic, big receiver and will give the Chiefs one heck of a matchup nightmare beside Jeremy Maclin.
The Pick: Tight End Maxx Williams, Minnesota
Jordan Cameron is gone as a free agent, and the Cleveland Browns have to be feeling better about their wide receiver corps with Dwayne Bowe and Brian Hartline now in place. That means they're free to address their huge need at tight end with a pick who's also a very good value at pick No. 19.
Maxx Williams, a redshirt sophomore when he left Minnesota, is raw, but he has Travis Kelce or Greg Olsen-like upside and can be the dual-threat tight end the Browns build their intermediate passing game around. And whether it's Josh McCown or Johnny Manziel at quarterback, Williams gives them a big, physical threat in the red zone.
The Pick: Safety Landon Collins, Alabama
You could argue that no team has been as active, or successful, at filling needs as the Philadelphia Eagles this offseason. With Chip Kelly now fully in control of personnel, the Eagles have made major moves, and by doing so, they've filled almost every hole on the roster.
One remaining hole comes at strong safety, where Earl Wolff is a solid player but not a defensive game-changer. Landon Collins can be a game-changer. His ability to play down in the box to stop the run or get depth in the passing game makes him a true rookie impact player. He has size, instincts, agility and the vision to take the ball away. 
The Pick: Defensive Lineman Arik Armstead, Oregon
The Cincinnati Bengals have added defensive linemen this offseason—they brought Michael Johnson home—but Marvin Lewis cannot resist big, strong, fast defensive linemen when they're on the board. Arik Armstead, Oregon's defensive tackle, fits the bill and is a great value at pick No. 21.
Armstead, lining up beside Geno Atkins, would give the Bengals the kind of defensive nightmare they hoped Margus Hunt would become but hasn't yet. With his agile moves, long arms and bulk against the run, Armstead gives the Bengals an impact now and a player they can build around for the future.
The Pick: Cornerback Trae Waynes, Michigan State
Trae Waynes' name has been red-hot since the NFL combine, but on my board, he's a late first-rounder and a great fit and value for the Pittsburgh Steelers at pick No. 22.
The Steelers relied on Ike Taylor and Co. for too long, and now there is a major need for cornerback help in the Steel City. Waynes can be a rookie starter given his length and speed, but he'll be learning on the job as he improves his technique from the handsy, physical style played at Michigan State. His upside is huge, and he fills a major need in Pittsburgh.
The Pick: Defensive Tackle Malcom Brown, Texas
Ndamukong Suh and Nick Fairley are gone, and Haloti Ngata comes in. But the Detroit Lions still need beef up front on the defensive line—and adding some youth won't hurt, either.
Texas defensive tackle Malcom Brown can play nose tackle, 1-technique or 3-technique on the defensive line, making him a perfect fit for Teryl Austin's defense. Brown was a bit of a one-year wonder at Texas, but he came on huge for Charlie Strong and has the size, strength, length and upside to become a building block along the defensive line.
The Pick: Defensive Tackle Eddie Goldman, Florida State
Dan Williams left Arizona for the Oakland Raiders, leaving a big hole in the Cardinals' defensive line. Now the Cardinals—a team that has drafted very well as of late—must replace the anchor of their defense. The good news is that this is a deep defensive tackle draft.
Eddie Goldman is the ideal man to fill that void. There were times in 2014 when he completely took over the offensive line and showed the power and explosiveness to take over games. He's stout enough to hold ground in the run game and athletic enough to get to the pocket as a pass-rusher. 
Goldman might not just be Williams' replacement; he has the potential to be his upgrade.
The Pick: Tackle D.J. Humphries, Florida
Since 2000, the latest the first offensive tackle has been drafted is pick No. 13. That was Jammal Brown, who the New Orleans Saints drafted in 2005. But if this draft order holds to form, D.J. Humphries coming off the board at No. 25 overall would be a recent record.
D.J. Humphries has earned his No. 1 tackle ranking, and the Florida junior has the athleticism and upside to become an even better pro player than he was in college. With his length, movement skills, hand placement and timing, the Panthers can look at Humphries as their left tackle of the future and Cam Newton's new bodyguard. 
The Pick: Wide Receiver Jaelen Strong, Arizona State
The Baltimore Ravens won a Super Bowl two years ago with Torrey Smith and Anquan Boldin. Now both play for the San Francisco 49ers. Steve Smith Sr. is still around as the No. 1 receiver in the offense, but the need for a young deep threat is real in this offense.
Jaelen Strong can be that player, and he has the tools to become a No. 1 receiver in Baltimore once Smith moves on to retirement. This is both a need and value pick, as Strong is a solid option in the late first round and has the tools to bring a rookie impact to the Ravens.
The Pick: Linebacker Eric Kendricks, UCLA
What will the Dallas Cowboys do with their first-round pick? That's a great question very few can confidently answer with an educated guess. The past two years, they went with offensive linemen—grabbing Travis Frederick and Zack Martin to build up what was the NFL's best offensive line in 2014. 
It's easy to look at defense and say the Cowboys need help there, but the addition of Greg Hardy takes care of the team's biggest need. Now Jerry and Stephen Jones can look at the roster, look at their big board and grab another rookie starter.
Defensive tackle or cornerback could be a solid pick here, but when looking at value and need, linebacker Eric Kendricks is the better play. He wouldn't supplant Sean Lee at middle linebacker, but could play outside linebacker in the team's 4-3 defense and is an ideal replacement for Lee if he's lost for the season due to injury again. 
The Pick: Offensive Lineman La'el Collins, LSU
The Denver Broncos have built an imposing defense and still have a future Hall of Famer throwing darts to an impressive roster at wide receiver. What they lack is the offensive line to execute Gary Kubiak's offense. Adding an athlete like La'el Collins to play right tackle in this scheme is a smart play for general manager John Elway in the late first round.
Collins played left and right tackle at LSU and could step into the Broncos' offense from the first day of camp, becoming the team's bulldozer in the run game and the power protector for Manning at right tackle. His athleticism and upside make him a no-brainer pick if he's on the board here.
The Pick: Offensive Lineman Andrus Peat, Stanford
The Indianapolis Colts handed Gosder Cherilus a five-year, $35 million contract before the 2013 season in hopes that he could become the bookend to Anthony Castonzo as the team loaded up the edge to protect Andrew Luck. However, Cherilus has been a disappointment—an expensive disappointment—and the Colts must look to improve the position.
To find that man, they can go back to Luck's alma mater. Andrus Peat has the length, size and athleticism to play left tackle, but the power to start at right tackle immediately. He's an attacker, a finisher and has the skill in the run game to open up the Colts' offense. Additionally, he can move well enough to make the Indianapolis pocket a mobile one for the excellent athlete at quarterback.
The Pick: Linebacker Benardrick McKinney, Mississippi State
The offseason in Green Bay has been about locking up key starters Bryan Bulaga and Randall Cobb, which left little time and money for filling holes in free agency. Now general manager Ted Thompson gets to do what he loves to do—build his team through the draft.
Benardrick McKinney is a versatile, athletic linebacker who can play inside or outside, and in the Packers' 3-4 scheme, he projects as an attacking inside 'backer. If you liked what Clay Matthews gave the team as a pass-rusher from the inside last year, McKinney brings some of that same blitzing ability in his toolbox. He has size, speed, range and the instincts to start for the Packers right away.
The Pick: Cornerback Kevin Johnson, Wake Forest
Is Jimmy Graham worth Max Unger and rookie cornerback Kevin Johnson? We'll find out soon enough, but that's what the trade that shook the NFL world amounts to in this mock draft. Graham, one of the best tight ends in football, for a top-tier center and a top-tier cornerback prospect.
Johnson doesn't have elite NFL size or strength, but his technique and ball skills are pro-ready. He has the speed, the toughness and the footwork scouts fall in love with on the boundary. If you can look past his slight frame, Johnson could be the best cornerback in this very deep class.
The Pick: Cornerback Jalen Collins, LSU
The New England Patriots lost Darrelle Revis and Brandon Browner at cornerback in an offseason shake-up that leaves them very thin and very inexperienced at cornerback. That's where Bill Belichick comes in and makes a move in the draft to improve his coverage talent.
Jalen Collins is raw, but his upside is huge. He's physical, long, fast and has the aggressive ball skills to match up against the offense's best receiver. He's not Revis, or even Browner right now, but Collins has long-term potential and comes at a low cost to the Patriots as they get younger at cornerback.
33. Tennessee—T Jake Fisher, Oregon
34. Tampa Bay—T Cedric Ogbuehi, Texas A&M
35. Oakland—Edge Owa Odighizuwa, UCLA
36. Jacksonville—LB Paul Dawson, TCU
37. N.Y. Jets—RB Melvin Gordon, Wisconsin
38. Washington—Edge Eli Harold, Virginia
39. Chicago—CB P.J. Williams, FSU
40. N.Y. Giants—LB Denzel Perryman, Miami
41. St. Louis—C Cameron Erving, FSU
42. Atlanta—RB Duke Johnson, Miami
43. Cleveland—WR Devin Funchess, Michigan
44. New Orleans—WR Breshad Perriman, Central Florida
45. Minnesota—CB Byron Jones, UConn
46. San Francisco—WR Nelson Agholor, USC
47. Miami—WR Devin Smith, Ohio State
48. San Diego—T T.J. Clemmings, Pitt
49. Kansas City—T Ereck Flowers, Miami
50. Buffalo—QB Bryce Petty, Baylor
51. Houston—LB Stephone Anthony, Clemson
52. Philadelphia—CB Quinten Rollins, Miami (Ohio)
53. Cincinnati—CB Alex Carter, Stanford
54. Detroit—RB Tevin Coleman, Indiana
55. Arizona—RB T.J. Yeldon, Alabama
56. Pittsburgh—Edge Danielle Hunter, LSU
57. Carolina—WR Phillip Dorsett, Miami
58. Baltimore—DT Carl Davis, Iowa
59. Denver—FS Gerod Holliman, Louisville
60. Dallas—DT Michael Bennett, Ohio State
61. Indianapolis—NT Jordan Phillips, Oklahoma
62. Green Bay—DE Henry Anderson, Stanford
63. Seattle—DE Preston Smith, Mississippi State
64. New England—RB Ameer Abdullah, Nebraska
65. Tampa Bay—FS Damarious Randall, Arizona State
66. Tennessee—CB Charles Gaines, Louisville
67. Jacksonville—C Hroniss Grasu, Oregon
68. Oakland—RB Jay Ajayi, Boise State
69. Washington—ILB Ramik Wilson, Georgia
70. N.Y. Jets—T Rob Havenstein, Wisconsin
71. Chicago—Edge Nate Orchard, Utah
72. St. Louis—G A.J. Cann, South Carolina
73. Atlanta—TE Clive Walford, Miami (Florida)
74. N.Y. Giants—WR Sammie Coates, Auburn
75. New Orleans—QB Brett Hundley, UCLA
76. Minnesota—RB David Cobb, Minnesota
77. Cleveland—SS Jaquiski Tartt, Samford
78. New Orleans—G Ali Marpet, Hobart
79. San Francisco—DL Mario Edwards, FSU
80. Kansas City—WR Rashad Greene, FSU
81. Buffalo—G Tre' Jackson, FSU
82. Houston—CB Lorenzo Doss, Tulane
83. San Diego—C B.J. Finney, Kansas State
84. Philadelphia—FS Derron Smith, Fresno State
85. Cincinnati—LB Kwon Alexander, LSU
86. Arizona—Edge Markus Golden, Missouri
87. Pittsburgh—NT Grady Jarrett, Clemson
88. Detroit—CB Jacoby Glenn, Central Florida
89. Carolina—CB Quandre Diggs, Texas
90. Baltimore—CB Senquez Golson, Ole Miss
91. Dallas—SS Anthony Harris, Virginia
92. Denver—DL Xavier Cooper, Fresno State
93. Indianapolis—RB Mike Davis, South Carolina
94. Green Bay—NT Gabe Wright, Auburn
95. Seattle—WR Tyler Lockett, Kansas State
96. New England—WR Justin Hardy, East Carolina
97. New England—G Laken Tomlinson, Duke
98. Kansas City—ILB Jordan Hicks, Texas
99. Cincinnati—TE Jeff Heuerman, Ohio State
100. Tennessee—WR Tre McBride, William & Mary
101. New England—NT Tyeler Davison, Fresno State
102. Oakland—CB Steven Nelson, Oregon State
103. Jacksonville—G Jarvis Harrison, Texas A&M
104. N.Y. Jets—QB Garrett Grayson, Colorado State
105. Washington—G Donovan Smith, Penn State
106. Chicago—QB Sean Mannion, Oregon State
107. Atlanta—CB D'Joun Smith, FAU
108. N.Y. Giants—S Adrian Amos, Penn State
109. Tampa Bay—DE Trey Flowers, Arkansas
110. Minnesota—T Tyrus Thompson, Oklahoma
111. Cleveland—Edge Lorenzo Mauldin, Louisville
112. Seattle—T Ty Sambrailo, Colorado State
113. Philadelphia—G Josue Matias, FSU
114. Miami—FS Josh Shaw, USC
115. Cleveland—LB Ben Heeney, Kansas
116. Houston—WR Josh Harper, Fresno State
117. San Diego—DL Marcus Hardison, Arizona State
118. Kansas City—G Mark Glowinski, West Virginia
119. St. Louis—T Daryl Williams, Oklahoma
120. Cincinnati—LB Jake Ryan, Michigan
121. Pittsburgh—CB/S Eric Rowe, Utah
122. Baltimore—RB Buck Allen, USC
123. Arizona—CB Doran Grant, Ohio State
124. Carolina—SS James Sample, Louisville
125. Baltimore—Edge Za'Darius Smith, Kentucky
126. San Francisco—ILB Taiwan Jones, Michigan State
127. Dallas—Edge Hau'oli Kikaha, Washington
128. Indianapolis—FS Cody Prewitt, Ole Miss
129. Green Bay—CB Ifo Ekpre-Olomu, Oregon
130. Seattle—RB David Johnson, Northern Iowa
131. New England—Edge Max Valles, Virginia
132. San Francisco—WR Antwan Goodley, Baylor
133. Denver—CB Kevin White, TCU
134. Seattle—DT Rakeem Nunez-Roches, Southern Miss
135. Cincinnati—G John Miller, Louisville
136. Baltimore—TE Blake Bell, Oklahoma
137. Minnesota—Edge Kyle Emanuel, North Dakota State
138. Tennessee—LB Mike Hull, Penn State
139. Jacksonville—WR Chris Conley, Georgia
140. Oakland—DT Christian Covington, Rice
141. Washington—RB Jeremy Langford, Michigan State
142. Chicago—C Reese Dismukes, Auburn
143. Denver—Edge Zach Hodges, Harvard
144. N.Y. Giants—CB Imoan Claiborne, Northwestern State
145. Philadelphia—TE Rory Anderson, South Carolina
146. Atlanta—CB Craig Mager, Texas State
147. Cleveland—T Rob Crisp, North Carolina State
148. New Orleans—TE Tyler Kroft, Rutgers
149. Miami—DT Bobby Richardson, Indiana
150. Miami—CB JaCorey Shepherd, Kansas
151. San Francisco—CB Troy Hill, Oregon
152. Houston—C Greg Mancz, Toledo
153. San Diego—CB Ladarius Gunter, Miami (Florida)
154. New Orleans—DT Ellis McCarthy, UCLA
155. Buffalo—TE Ben Koyack, Notre Dame
156. Philadelphia—WR Dezmin Lewis, Central Arkansas
157. Cincinnati—SS Jordan Richards, Stanford
158. Baltimore—WR Dres Anderson, Utah
159. Arizona—WR Tony Lippett, Michigan State
160. Pittsburgh—TE Nick O'Leary, FSU
161. Carolina—RB Cameron Artis-Payne, Auburn
162. Tampa Bay—C Andy Gallik, Boston College
163. Dallas—LB Martrell Spaight, Arkansas
164. Denver—C Shaq Mason, Georgia Tech
165. Indianapolis—CB Damian Swann, Georgia
166. Green Bay—SS Kyshoen Jarrett, Virginia Tech
167. Seattle—FS Detrick Bonner, Virginia Tech
168. Tampa Bay—RB Matt Jones, Florida
169. Carolina—WR Vince Mayle, Washington St
170. Seattle—OL Mitch Morse, Missouri
171. Baltimore—T Andrew Donnal, Iowa
172. Kansas City—CB Bobby McCain, Memphis
173. Kansas City—WR Titus Davis, Central Michigan
174. Houston—G Quinton Spain, West Virginia
175. Baltimore—S D.C. Celiscar, Western Michigan
176. Tennessee—G Jeremiah Poutasi, Utah
177. New England—T Tayo Fabuluje, TCU
178. Oakland—TE Randall Telfer, USC
179. Jacksonville—Edge Davis Tull, Chattanooga
180. Seattle—CB Garry Peters, Clemson
181. Washington—T Austin Shepherd, Alabama
182. Chicago—SS Chris Hackett, TCU
183. Tampa Bay—G Jamil Douglas, Arizona State
184. Atlanta—T Sean Donnelly, Tulane
185. N.Y. Giants—TE Jesse James, Penn State
186. New Orleans—FS Kurtis Drummond, Michigan State
187. Buffalo—LB Hayes Pullard, USC
188. Cleveland—WR DeVaris Daniels, Notre Dame
189. San Francisco—Edge Lynden Trail, Norfolk State
190. Miami—DE Anthony Chickillo, Miami (Florida)
191. San Diego—DT James Castleman, Oklahoma State
192. Kansas City—FS A.J. Jefferson, UCLA
193. Buffalo—SS Ibraheim Campbell, Northwestern
194. Houston—WR Kenny Bell, Nebraska
195. Philadelphia—T Jamon Brown, Louisville
196. Cincinnati—DE Cedric Reed, Texas
197. Arizona—DL Derrick Lott, Chattanooga
198. Pittsburgh—Edge Geneo Grissom, Oklahoma
199. Detroit—T Corey Robinson, South Carolina
200. Carolina—CB Cody Riggs, Notre Dame
201. Cleveland—TE MyCole Pruitt, Southern Illinois
202. Denver—RB Thomas Rawls, Central Michigan
203. Baltimore—CB Justin Coleman, Tennessee
204. Indianapolis—LB Alani Fua, BYU
205. Green Bay—T Jake Rodgers, Eastern Washington
206. Indianapolis—G Antoine Everett, McNeese State
207. Tennessee—FS Durell Eskridge, Syracuse
208. Denver—QB Brandon Bridge, South Alabama
209. Seattle—WR Darren Waller, Georgia Tech
210. Green Bay—WR Devante Davis, UNLV
211. Houston—RB Trey Williams, Texas A&M
212. Green Bay—LB Amarlo Herrera, Georgia
213. Carolina—OL Bobby Hart, FSU
214. Seattle—C Chad Hamilton, Coastal Carolina
215. St. Louis—WR Rannell Hall, Central Florida
216. Houston—CB Cam Thomas, Western Kentucky
217. Kansas City—C Max Garcia, Florida
218. Tampa Bay—CB Bryce Callahan, Rice
219. New England—WR Ty Montgomery, Stanford
220. Jacksonville—RB Josh Robinson, Mississippi State
221. Oakland—T Trenton Brown, Florida
222. Washington—NT David Parry, Stanford
223. N.Y. Jets—WR DeAndre Smelter, Georgia Tech
224. N.Y. Jets—T Darrian Miller, Kentucky
225. Atlanta—WR Stefon Diggs, Maryland
226. N.Y. Giants—T Sean Hickey, Syracuse
227. Atlanta—RB Malcolm Brown, Texas
228. Minnesota—DT Louis Trinca-Pasat, Iowa
229. Cleveland—RB Tyler Varga, Yale
230. New Orleans—Edge Deiontrez Mount, Louisville
231. Detroit—G Robert Myers, Tennessee State
232. Minnesota—FB Jalston Fowler, Alabama
233. Kansas City—DL Leon Orr, Florida
234. Buffalo—G Adam Shead, Oklahoma
235. Houston—FS Jermaine Whitehead, Auburn
236. Dallas—QB Connor Halliday, Washington State
237. Philadelphia—SS Erick Dargan, Oregon
238. Cincinnati—T Doniel Gambrell, Notre Dame College
239. Pittsburgh—DE Corey Crawford, Clemson
240. Detroit—WR Mario Alford, West Virginia
241. Arizona—Edge Ryan Russell, Purdue
242. Carolina—QB Bryan Bennett, SE Louisiana
243. Dallas—RB Dee Hart, Colorado State
244. Dallas—TE Cameron Clear, Texas A&M
245. N.Y. Giants—TE E.J. Bibbs, Iowa State
246. San Francisco—LB Damien Wilson, Minnesota
247. Green Bay—G Ben Beckwith, Mississippi State
248. Seattle—LB John Timu, Washington
249. St. Louis—LB Jeff Luc, Cincinnati
250. Denver—WR Deon Long, Maryland
251. Denver—LB Bryce Hager, Baylor
252. Pittsburgh—DL Joey Mbu, Houston
253. New England—RB Zach Zenner, South Dakota State
254. San Francisco—G Miles Dieffenbach, Penn State
255. Indianapolis—Edge Ray Drew, Georgia
256. Arizona—RB Karlos Williams, FSU
Do you want to share your Bleacher Report activity on Facebook?



We'd like to send you the most entertaining NFL articles, videos, and podcasts from around the web.




Subscribe Now


Thanks for signing up.
Choose Teams
Real-time news for your favorite teams, right on your mobile device.
Download Now
B/R's Writer Program and Advanced Program in Sports Media can give you the edge you need to get ahead.
Apply Now

				Copyright © 2015 Bleacher Report, Inc. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
				BleacherReport.com is part of Bleacher Report - Turner Sports Network, part of the Turner Sports and Entertainment Network.
				Certain photos copyright © 2015 by Getty Images.
				Any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of Getty Images is strictly prohibited.
			
